1. Using proper pseudo-code, describe the following primitive algorithms:

    MAKING COFFEE

    FILL kettle with water to desired level
    HEAT kettle on stovetop to boil
    INSERT coffee grounds into french press
    POUR boiling water to top of french press
    COVER with lid for 5 minutes
    PRESS down handle to separate grounds from liquid
    POUR coffee into desired container


    WASHING DISHES

    FILL sink with hot and soapy water
    SCRUB dirty dish with abrasive material
    RINSE dish with clean water
    WIPE dry with clean towel


    PROCESS FLORAL SHIPMENT

    REMOVE floral items from shipping box
    FILL bucket with water and preservative
    REMOVE leaves from stems
    CUT one inch off bottom of stems
    PLACE floral items into bucket 
    


2. As with the knot algorithm, there may be more than one way to solve the problem. It is essential to try to pick the best algorithm for a situation. Name three companies who created an algorithm that made them successful, e.g., Google's search algorithm. It doesn't need to be a tech example (such as a recipe or manufacturing a product). Google's algorithm produces more relevant results than other search engines; what about each of your cases make them stand out?

    Spotify - created a platform for affordable music with easy to use software and almost limitless musical options.

    Modern 3-point seat belt by Nils Bohlin - invented a much safer and more effective seat belt, which was later available for all manufacturers to use, ultimately saving many more lives.

    Waze - a maps-like app, but better solves the everyday problem of cutting the time down on a driving destination, not just choosing the shortest distance. 


3. Hypothesize about what constitutes an efficient algorithm versus an inefficient algorithm.

An efficient algorithm would need to solve a problem, in as few steps as possible, and could possibly be used repeatedly. In contrast, I imagine an inefficient algorithm would spend too much time working a problem, or might only have limited use.