Exercises

1. What is time complexity and what is its relation to algorithms?

    An estimation of the time it takes for a program to execute, written as a function.

2. What is runtime?

    The time is takes for a program to execute in terms of physical time, but used synonymously with time complexity.

3. How is the runtime of an algorithm calculated?

    Add up all of the instructions that the algorithm will execute as a function of the size of its input,simplify to the largest term, and drop constants.

4. Name the six types of algorithm growth rates we saw in this checkpoint and list them in order of most efficient to least efficient. Now Google another algorithmic growth rate not covered and place it in the correct spot in your list.

    Constant 
    Logarithmic 
    Linear 
    Log Linear
    Quadratic
    Exponential
    Factorial

5. Choose one of the algorithmic growth rates from the last question and make a comparison to a real-life situation.

    Linear - the time it takes to scoop ice cream. If the number of scoops increases by one, so does the scooping time.

6. Determine the time complexity of the following snippet of code. It is commonly known as a linear search.

FUNCTION linearSearch(array, target)
 FOR each number in the array
   IF number = target THEN
     RETURN true
   END IF
 END FOR
 RETURN false
END FUNCTION

O(n) - Linear

7. Determine the time complexity of the following snippet of code.

FUNCTION foo(array)
 FOR each number in the array
   FOR each number in the array
     print "Hello"
   END FOR
 END FOR
END FUNCTION

O(n^2) - Quadratic

8. Determine the time complexity of the following snippet of code. It is commonly known as the Fibonacci sequence.

FUNCTION fibonacci(number)
 IF number < 1 THEN
   ERROR
 ELSE IF number = 1 or 2 THEN
   RETURN 1
 ELSE
   CALL fibonacci WITH number - 2 RETURNING twoBack
   CALL fibonacci WITH number - 1 RETURNING oneBack
   RETURN twoBack + oneBack
 END IF
END FUNCTION

O(2^n) - Exponential

9. Out of the code snippets you just saw, which is the most time efficient?

The linear search function was the most time efficient.